[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Samantha Fey is
with us, the author
of "The Awake Dreamer, A Guide
to Lucid Dreaming, Astral
Travel, and Mastering
the Dreamscape"
which explores the concept of
soul travel through dreaming.
Fascinating subject, Samantha,
and welcome to the program.
>>SAMANTHA FEY: Thank you.
I'm so happy to be here and
talk about dreams and everything
with you.
I love it.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in interpreting
and exploring dreams?
>>FEY: Well, it really for
me all started back in 2005.
At the time, I was married
to a police officer.
And I started having these
dreams just over and over
and over for a
period of about two
or three weeks where I saw just
a bullet impacting someone's
neck.
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh.
>>FEY: Yeah, it was terrifying.
I never saw a face.
I just saw the hand
coming over the neck.
But obviously, being
married to a police officer,
I thought this was trying to--
>>NOORY: That it was him.
>>FEY: Right, trying
to tell me something.
So I kept telling him to
wear his bulletproof vest
and, you know, be very,
very vigilant and careful.
But you know how police are.
They think they're invincible.
And unfortunately, the dream
came true, and he was--
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>FEY: Yeah, he was shot
in the neck while trying
to apprehend a criminal.
And he was in a coma
most of that summer.
It was-- but he made it.
But I remember sitting there
with my sisters and my friends,
and I had told them all
about this recurring
dream I kept having.
And they said--
>>NOORY: Precognitive, right?
>>FEY: Yes, and
they said, you've
got to do something
with this Samantha.
You've been having
precognitive, intuitive dream
experiences your whole life.
And so I--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FEY: --started on this
path of really starting
to pay attention to
my dreams and seeing
where it can take me.
And then I started researching
it and listening to--
I have a podcast,
and I ask listeners
to submit their dreams.
And I started realizing that
something really magical
is happening when we sleep.
We're not just always dreaming.
>>NOORY: Very powerful.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And is the police
officer doing better?
>>FEY: Yes, yes, he does
have an anoxic brain injury,
so there are some limitations.
But he is doing
much, much better.
>>NOORY: Well, our prayers
go out to him, Samantha.
>>FEY: Thank you.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: What is the dreamscape?
>>FEY: I feel like
when we are sleeping,
some nights we just dream
because our body needs to rest
and our subconscious--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>FEY: --needs to release some
things, fears and whatnot.
But I think that many
times when we sleep,
we do enter this dreamscape
where we can encounter
loved ones on the other side.
We can maybe encounter our
spirit guides and angels.
We can get information on
problems we're seeking.
Rudolf Steiner
called the dreamscape
a third state of being
where actually something
really mystical is happening.
>>NOORY: What happens when
we generally dream, anyway?
What do you think the
physical process is,
or is it a physical process?
>>FEY: Well, I do think
it is a physical process.
And that's why some people
report sleep paralysis,
you know, where they wake
up but their body is--
>>NOORY: They can't move.
>>FEY: They can't move,
and it's so scary.
So our body is naturally going
to paralyze itself so that we
don't act out our dreams.
But I think that many times,
when we have these dreams,
our soul is leaving our
body so that we can have
these wonderful experiences.
>>NOORY: Tell us more
about soul travel.
>>FEY: Well, soul travel
is a form of astral travel,
except astral travel is more
something that people do
on purpose--
you know, where
they'll meditate,
and they really work on it,
they take classes in it--
whereas soul travel
is spontaneous--
>>NOORY: It just happens.
>>FEY: --astral travel.
It just happens.
Yes, and you find
yourself in sometimes what
I call the other side
of this other dimension.
And you're able to get so
much information and insight
on problems you're having,
or meeting up with someone
you've lost that you just
want to see one more time.
>>NOORY: How powerful
is soul travel?
>>FEY: I think it can
be very, very powerful.
You can use those
experiences to gain insight
into challenges happening
in your life right now.
You can use it to heal grief.
You can use it to--
people have reported
having past life dreams.
There's-- Dr. Ian Stevenson
wrote about announcing dreams.
And he recorded them,
amazingly with detail,
of people who would announce to
either their mom-- future mom
or dad in a dream that they
were going to come to Earth.
>>NOORY: Now a lucid
dream is knowing
that you're in the dream?
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: You can actually
alter the dream--
>>FEY: While you're in it.
>>NOORY: --while you're in it.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's like you're
writing your own movie script,
right?
>>FEY: Yes.
Yes, exactly.
And it's a great tool,
especially for creative people
because you can use that
lucid dream to really get
some wonderful ideas for a
project that you're working on.
And I think lucid dreaming
can happen on purpose.
You can try to train your
brain through different methods
to have a lucid dream.
But any time that
you realize you're
awake and aware
in a dream, that's
an aspect of lucid dreaming.
Or have you ever had a dream
where you're watching yourself
as George doing something?
>>NOORY: No, I don't do that.
I'm always like here,
like I hold up my hand,
I can see my hand and stuff.
My dreams are always
that perspective.
>>FEY: Right, OK,
well, that's great.
Some people have a dream
where they're that perspective
and they're watching
themselves do whatever it
is they're doing in the dream.
>>NOORY: I almost
dream like real life.
>>FEY: Right.
So that's a sign
of high intellect.
>>NOORY: Some dreams, I'm going
to have you interpret some
of them as we get into this.
Did your-- do you
get any assistance
from spirit guides or anything?
>>FEY: Yeah, I think--
I know I do, and I think
many of us do as well.
And I think it's something
that we can rely on.
The subconscious mind cannot
handle an unanswerable
question.
So if you fall asleep
with a problem you've
been worried about
or thinking about,
very often the answer will
come to you in a dream.
But I've had so many
dream experiences
where there is a guide with me
and will help me and tell me
what I'm supposed to be doing.
So sometimes, I'll
have these dreams
where I'm encountering
a being, a human, who
has just recently died.
And they're not aware
that they have died.
And my job is to be
the medium for them,
to serve as a bridge
from here to there,
and let them realize
that they have passed on.
And I will always
have a guide with me
who's kind of telling
me a little bit
about their background
and telling me
what to say so that I
can help them move on.
>>NOORY: What are the
historical psychiatrists,
like Sigmund Freud,
Carl Jung, what do
they say about the dream state?
>>FEY: Well, Sigmund
Freud and Carl Jung
differed a little bit on that.
Carl Jung had--
>>NOORY: They argued
about it, didn't they?
>>FEY: Yeah, yeah, Sigmund
Freud believed most dreams,
or really, I guess, I
could say, all dreams,
he believed were symbolic
representations, whereas Carl
Jung was more willing to look at
dreams in a multi-layered way.
He always said that
everyone in your dream
is a representation of yourself.
So if you're dreaming about
a boss yelling at you,
well, what part of you is being
critical of yourself, right?
But he also, especially
in his later life,
became much more free and
open to talk about some
of his soul travel dreams.
He believes he dreamt about
World War I before it happened.
He had a dream that he
wrote down in that book--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FEY: --that made him rethink
the afterlife because he dreamt
about his father coming
to him and saying,
you know, your mom's going
to be joining me soon.
>>NOORY: My daughter
had a 911 dream--
9/11 dream.
>>FEY: Wow.
>>NOORY: Weeks
before it happened.
We had no idea what
it was except she
called me up and said, dad, I
just had this strange dream.
I'm in this big city,
I don't know where,
and this cloud of dust
and dirt is falling on me.
And I look down at
my feet, and I'm
in 6 inches deep of this stuff
all over the city, what is it?
And I said, Wendy,
I have no idea.
9/11 hits.
>>FEY: Boom.
>>NOORY: And we see
the stuff falling--
>>FEY: Yep.
>>NOORY: That was--
>>FEY: Just like her dream.
Yeah, the studies
on the precognitive
dreams that happened
before 9/11 are
fascinating to look through.
And if you look at the
statistics of those airplanes
that those poor people were on,
they were about 20% capacity.
They weren't full planes
which leads one to wonder,
did some of them have
a precognitive dream
that made them cancel
their flight that day?
>>NOORY: Some people did.
>>FEY: Right, so I think
that's interesting.
There's a doctor in
England in the 1960s.
He started the
Premonitions Bureau
after they had this
terrible coal mining
landslide in South Wales.
And he started reading
newspaper reports
where so many people had
dreamt of this horrible event
happening weeks beforehand,
including some of the children.
The landslide happened
with the coal mine,
and it covered a school.
So unfortunately, a
lot of little children
passed away as well.
But when they looked back
through the drawings,
many of the little children
had drawn just that.
So he actually started
this whole research project
called the Premonitions Bureau
to research precognitive
dreams.
>>NOORY: Is there
something that is giving us
these intuitive dreams,
sending the information to us?
>>FEY: You know, I don't know.
I don't know the
full answer to that.
If you look at
the remote viewing
program, the Stargate
Program, and you
look at all of
their findings, they
will tell you that all
the information that we
need to know is out there now.
It's available to all of us now.
And you can dip into that
collective consciousness
of all knowing
through meditation
or through your dreams.
So it makes you think
is it always out there,
and we just have to quiet
our brain to get there?
>>NOORY: Samantha,
at age 39, you
had a bout with breast cancer.
Tell us about that.
>>FEY: Yeah, and it was--
all was helped by a dream.
I had this really
powerful experience.
I woke up in my bed, but I
knew I was still dreaming.
And I heard this loud
bang in my living room.
And so I rushed out
to my living room.
And there was my mother-in-law
who had passed away
five years before.
And I loved my mother-in-law.
And there she is
in my living room.
And I said, Maggie, what
are you doing in my dream?
And she said,
Samantha, help me up,
that took more energy
than they told me.
I said, what took more energy?
And she said, breaking
into your dream.
Help me up, I don't
have much time.
So I helped her up.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>FEY: And she held
my hands, and she
said, listen to me, honey,
listen, it means nothing.
Do you hear me?
It means nothing.
You're going to be OK.
>>NOORY: And you're going,
what is she talking about?
>>FEY: I had no idea what
she was talking about.
And she said, and tell
Grace congratulations.
And Grace was her grandchild
from my sister-in-law's side
of the family.
So I woke up and I told my
husband, Mike, at the time.
I said, I just had this
dream about your mom.
I don't know what it means.
And he said, well,
let me call my sister
and see if anything
happened to Grace.
If nothing happened to Grace,
then it was just a dream.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FEY: So he calls
up his sister,
and her daughter, Grace,
had just made the ski team.
And so then I thought, uh-oh,
what is she trying to tell me.
And later that night, I
found a lump in my breast.
>>NOORY: Oh, no.
>>FEY: And so I did go and find
out that I had breast cancer.
But luckily, I
caught it in time.
And Maggie was absolutely right.
I was fine.
I got through it, and
it didn't mean nothing,
It definitely meant something.
But I got through it, flying
colors, perfect health.
>>NOORY: Had you not
had that dream about it,
and the years
would have gone by,
it could have been
a disaster for you.
>>FEY: It could have
been a disaster.
And I would have
spent that process,
going through all
those, you know,
the doctor's appointments,
and the waiting,
and let's get this
test and this,
I would have spent that
process in a mess of nerves.
But I kept hearing her voice
from that dream in my head.
It means nothing.
You're going to be OK.
>>NOORY: Your father
had Alzheimer's.
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell us about that.
>>FEY: Yes, so my dad
was just an amazing man.
He just passed away in May.
>>NOORY: I'm sorry to hear that.
>>FEY: Oh, that's all right.
He was in advertising
and just very creative
and a true intellectual.
So to watch him leave us
in those steps and stages
was really hard.
>>NOORY: Oh, of course,
>>FEY: And we couldn't have
conversations with him.
He could say one word towards
the end of his life, which
was wonderful.
So we had this moment
together, he and I,
of perfect lucidity
where he was able to talk
to me about this phenomenon
that was happening to him.
He said, on a
nightly basis, where
he dreams and he goes
to the other side
and he sees his father.
And he says, I'm there as well.
And we're helping him to
get ready to cross over
to the other side.
And it was just amazing
because we never
had that lucidity after that.
>>NOORY: And you recorded him.
>>FEY: Yes, I recorded that.
>>NOORY: We have it.
>>FEY: Oh, let's hear it.
>>DAD: I go up, up in
the air around 6 o'clock.
I've got two places.
It will happen, but not today.
>>FEY: Not today.
What's the other
place look like?
You say, you live in two places.
What's your other
place look like?
>>DAD: No one hurts me.
They feel something about me.
I'm getting-- I'm
getting very close.
>>FEY: You're
getting very close?
>>DAD: Yeah, I've got two of me.
Two of, two Me's.
Soul goes out, goes out.
>>FEY: You'll stay here, and
then your soul will go there?
>>DAD: Yeah, I don't know
what to do or anything.
>>FEY: They haven't told you?
>>DAD: No, I get it
when I'm sleeping.
>>FEY: When you're sleeping.
>>DAD: Sleeping.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>DAD: After 8:00 or so,
maybe 9:00, I go to sleep.
All of a sudden,
bang, I'm there.
>>FEY: You're there.
>>DAD: Yeah.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>DAD: This whole place,
at night, there's you.
>>FEY: Me?
I'm there?
>>DAD: Yeah, and my father.
He said you're going over there.
What time is it?
>>FEY: Almost 5 o'clock.
>>DAD: 5 o'clock?
So, that's when it starts.
And he told me.
>>FEY: What did he tell you?
>>DAD: He'll take everything off
of me, everything, all of this,
and put me in over
there some place.
I just went to him.
>>FEY: You went to him?
And what did he say?
>>DAD: I have a
great place for you.
Don't worry about things.
>>FEY: Good.
>>DAD: Yeah.
It's hard for me
to walk and talk.
I asked my father, why
are you doing this?
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>DAD: Yeah.
>>FEY: What did he say?
>>DAD: Be nice to the people,
and don't worry when it comes.
>>NOORY: These
subtitles helped a lot.
>>FEY: Yeah, definitely does.
>>NOORY: How does that make you
feel when you hear him again?
>>FEY: Well, it makes me feel
emotional but also just so
happy because he was
almost having his life
review before he passed away.
And that recording is actually
about 45 minutes long.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
>>FEY: I mean, he just
wanted to keep talking
about this the whole afternoon.
And I just find it very,
very comforting because he
would say that, at night,
he would see a staircase.
And I would be at the bottom,
and his dad and his dog,
Slugger, would be at the top.
And I had to ask my cousins,
I'm like, who's Slugger?
And it was his childhood dog.
And you know how Alzheimer's
is, I thought it was amazing
that he recalled that name.
And he said, they're trying to
get him to go up the staircase.
But he isn't ready.
>>NOORY: Other than speaking
softly, he sounded pretty--
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --together.
>>FEY: Yes, and it was like
this little magical window
open for that day, you
know, and it closed.
So I'm so happy I
remembered to record it.
>>NOORY: Have you had dreams
about him since he passed?
>>FEY: No, I have not.
And it really bothers me.
>>NOORY: Is that unusual?
>>FEY: Yes, and no.
A lot of times when
you pass from something
like Alzheimer's,
what I've been told
and what I've heard
from other people
is it takes a long time for them
to acclimate to the other side.
My youngest daughter is way
more intuitive than I am.
And about a month after
my dad passed away,
my daughter had a dream.
And she said, she was
flying with her angel.
And she saw all these what
she described as clouds
with these lights
waving over the clouds.
And in each cloud was a person.
And they're flying over.
And she sees her grandfather.
She called him papa.
And she says to her
angel, that's my papa,
I have to say hi to him.
And the angel said, no, you
can't, he's still healing.
So I think very often
when we cross over,
our mind has been so muddled,
either from Alzheimer's, or
dementia, or maybe
a coma, I think,
it takes them a while to--
>>NOORY: Who do you
think, Samantha,
generates the visitation?
Us to the dying,
or the dying to us?
>>FEY: I think, generally, it's
the dying who generate that.
I think that they
have to do that.
And what I've been told in
many of these dream experiences
I've had with my
guides, they have
to be given permission
to come in our dreams.
Because think about
it, if they were
able to come into our
dreams any time they wanted,
it would hinder our grief
process, our ability
to move forward.
And it might hinder them
too because they miss us
just as much as we miss them.
>>NOORY: In the past
four years, I've
had three close friends die.
>>FEY: Oh, I'm so sorry.
>>NOORY: Not one has visited
me in my dream state,
and I'm beginning
to, like you, wonder
what's taking them so long.
>>FEY: Yeah, where are they?
>>NOORY: But do we
really need that anyway?
>>FEY: Well--
>>NOORY: A visitation.
>>FEY: I do think that
sometimes we don't, especially,
if you have the belief and
the faith that they're OK,
you don't.
But I still think it's nice.
I love that book
"Postcards from Heaven".
I just love the title.
Just give us a postcard.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FEY: A little dream
that just says--
>>NOORY: A little sign.
>>FEY: --I made it,
I'm here, I'm OK.
>>NOORY: Let us
know you made it.
>>FEY: Yeah, sometimes, they
can't come in our dreams
because we're so grieving
that it kind of puts up
walls and barriers.
And they can't enter
our dream state.
So I always tell people,
tell your loved one
on the other side, you have
permission to come in a dream
to a friend, or a family member,
who's not grieving as much.
I have a story in the book of
a dream where a neighbor was
walking by and said tell my
wife that Tweety said hello.
And so when I
recounted the dream,
it turned out that it was
just a neighbor I didn't know
very well, but it
turned out that that
was his nickname for her.
So he was able to come to
me in a dream but not to her
because she was so
actively grieving.
>>NOORY: And when you told
her this, was she freaking?
>>FEY: A little bit but
not-- but not as much.
I think the little nickname
that no one really knew
that he called her, I guess--
>>NOORY: That's the
sign right there.
>>FEY: Yeah, yeah, she said
that she did talk a lot
so that's why he
called her that.
>>NOORY: Is there an afterlife?
>>FEY: I believe there is.
>>NOORY: Maybe I haven't
been visited because maybe
there isn't any.
>>FEY: Well, I mean,
that could be it.
It could all be here right now.
But I, in my heart, I
believe that there is, I do.
>>NOORY: You hope there
is or you know there is?
>>FEY: I don't think we know
anything until we get there.
But I think if you
look at the phenomenon
of near-death
experiences, or you
look at just some of the
amazing research that's
been done into these
soul travel dreams,
there's got to be
something out there.
>>NOORY: What is a
night worker, Samantha?
>>FEY: Well, a night worker
is someone who works during
the day as a light worker,
so you might be a healer,
or an intuitive, or just
genuinely working to be kinder
and bring some
goodness to the world--
>>NOORY: An active, alive human.
>>FEY: Yes, yes, and
a lot of those people
have these experiences
when they're
sleeping of doing what I
call night work where they're
offering healings to other
people living or deceased,
or they're helping
cross over a ghost,
people do a life review.
So I've had wonderful
dream experiences.
I had a dream where we were
in this like movie theater.
And we were all sitting
around this man named Oliver.
And I knew in the dream
that he was contemplating
taking his own life.
>>NOORY: Oh, jeez.
>>FEY: And I knew he--
>>NOORY: Was he a real person?
>>FEY: Yes.
And I knew he was alive.
And there was a movie screen.
And they were showing
images of his life.
And there were two angels
around him on each side,
and then us humans
were standing behind.
And Oliver kept saying,
Oh, I didn't know--
I forgot I did that, or I didn't
know that lovely gesture I did
meant so much to that person.
And so it was as though the
angels, and I guess us as well,
these humans that
were in the dream
were trying to
tell him your life
is so important and
worthwhile and stay here.
And so that's part of being
a night worker where you're
helping people who are here
on Earth to really understand
and recognize that
they're doing good work
and they have a purpose.
>>NOORY: Your dreams are
pretty vivid, aren't they?
>>FEY: They are,
not all the time.
And I do stress
that in the book.
You know, you're
not going to have--
I think they say on average
we have seven dreams a night.
And very few of us are
going to remember all seven.
>>NOORY: Right, if at all.
>>FEY: If at all, and
a lot of those dreams
are just going to be
those typical stress
dreams of showing up late for
an exam, or what have you.
But I do think a small but
very significant and important
percentage of those
dreams are giving us
a glimpse into this afterlife.
>>NOORY: How many
different types of dreams
are there, Samantha?
We know there's precognitive.
We know there's--
>>FEY: There's several.
There's precognitive.
There's lucid dreaming.
There's astral travel dreaming.
There's past life dreaming.
There's announcing dreaming.
There's--
>>NOORY: Nightmares.
>>FEY: Nightmares, yes, which
are terrifying, obviously,
but incredibly instructive
because nightmare dreams tell
us what we're worried about.
So often, throughout our
day, we push down our fears.
We don't want to
think about them.
We ignore our stresses.
We ignore what our inner
voice is trying to tell us.
And nightmares are
a really great way
when we're asleep and relaxed
for our conscious to tell us,
hey, pay attention, this
is what you're really
thinking and worrying about.
>>NOORY: I had a
strange dream once.
I was expecting a package.
And I had to be home to
sign for it in real life.
And now I'm dreaming,
and I'm dreaming that I'm
waiting for this package.
I'm asleep.
All of a sudden,
the doorbell rings,
wakes me up from the dream.
It's a UPS guy with the package.
Now how in the world
does that happen?
>>FEY: Well, that
just goes to show--
I always teach people
what I teach about dreams.
Whatever you're doing or
thinking about during the day
is going to be
reflected at night.
So if you're worried
about something
like getting a
package, it's going
to show up in your dreams.
But it could also be
more symbolic than that.
And it could be
trying to tell you
about something that you need
to pick up in your own life
and sign for,
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: We have a
numerologist on the radio
show, Glynis McCants.
>>FEY: Glynis
McCants, I love her.
>>NOORY: She's one of the best.
Does numerology tie
into dreams at all?
>>FEY: Yes, I think so.
If you know a little
bit about numbers,
and you have any numbers
that show up in your dream,
it can really tell
you more about what's
going on in your life.
I had a friend, for
example, she was
having a dream about
all these birds,
kind of like Alfred
Hitchcock, you know, flying--
>>NOORY: Like "The Birds".
>>FEY: --over her.
Yeah, and she said to this
person standing next to her,
there must be hundreds of birds.
And the man was very stern.
And he said, no, there are 23.
And at the time--
>>NOORY: Just that.
>>FEY: Just that, very 23.
And at the time, she was
considering a relationship
issue.
And so she called
me and she was like,
I can't make sense
of this dream.
And I said, well, the number 2
is about partnership and love,
and the number 3 is
about communication.
And when you put it
together, 2 plus 3
is 5, that's the
number of change.
So I told her, I said,
I think that dream
was trying to tell you
that you and your partner
need to communicate
so that there
can be a positive change
in this relationship.
So it can be really
interesting if you look at --
there's a house number in
your dream, or someone--
there have been stories,
and I include some of them
in the book, of people who
have dreamt lottery numbers
and then won the lottery.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>FEY: I know.
That has not happened to me,
but there are documented stories
of that happening.
>>NOORY: How many people
don't remember their dreams?
>>FEY: Quite a few don't
remember their dreams.
But most people--
>>NOORY: And why not?
>>FEY: Well, I think, for
the main part, it's stress.
I can't tell you
the amount of emails
I got from people during
the COVID lockdowns who
were telling me they were
not remembering their dreams.
And there's actually
science behind that.
A lot of cortisol is
released when we sleep.
And if you're building up a
lot of cortisol in your day
through stress, it's going
to inhibit your ability
to recall your dreams.
>>NOORY: If you have an
unhealthy sleep cycle--
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: --you won't
remember your dreams.
>>FEY: Exactly.
We only dream in our REM cycle.
And so you've got to
get to that deep sleep
before you can
recall your dreams.
So if you're getting up a lot
at night to use the bathroom,
or if you're waking
up because you
have a little
infant, or a puppy,
or you're waking
up because there's
a lot of stress going
on in your life,
you're not going to
recall your dreams.
>>NOORY: The
precognitive dreams,
like your breast cancer, and
like so many people have,
what causes that?
What causes that dream?
>>FEY: I think it goes back to a
fascinating debate of free will
and destiny.
You know, how much free will
do we have here on Earth?
And how much of our
life is predestined?
Now, personally,
just my opinion,
I believe before we come
to Earth that we create
with our guides our soul plan.
That kind of just says, you
know, OK, well, at this age,
you're going to
be in Saint Louis.
At this age, you're going to
get on this amazing show "Coast
to Coast."
At this age, you're going
to have these children.
That just marks out the big
parts of our life, right?
And I think when we have a scary
big mark in our life or a very
happy one, oftentimes, our
subconscious remembers it
and will recall it in a dream.
So I think that
certain incidents,
like my former husband getting
shot in the line of duty,
I believe that was predestined.
Because if you look at the
events that surrounded that,
there was no getting out of it.
There were so many--
>>NOORY: Could it have
been changed and altered?
>>FEY: I don't believe
that it could have.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FEY: I really
don't because there
were, for example, the ambulance
was on scene that night
because they had been called out
to a house just a block away.
>>NOORY: Fortunately, right?
>>FEY: Yeah, by a
prank call, and they
don't know who made that call.
I became very good friends
with the ambulance man
who assisted him at that night.
And they don't know where
the call originated from.
>>NOORY: Did the
prank call basically
save your husband's
life at the time?
>>FEY: I believe so.
I believe so.
And he said, if we had
not been there on scene,
he wouldn't have lived
because he coded twice
on the way to the hospital.
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>FEY: And when they
got to the hospital,
the thoracic surgeon-- he
needed a very particular
thoracic surgeon,
and he happened
to have been there because he
was called in for another case
and was leaving.
He was keys in hand
Dr. David told me
he was getting ready to
go home for the night,
and he was there.
And he needed an entire
blood transfusion,
and the exact type of blood
they needed was in that ER.
>>NOORY: Everything
worked for him.
>>FEY: Everything worked out.
>>NOORY: Everything worked out.
>>FEY: It was so wild.
So I think some things
in our life are destined.
And I think when
they're that big,
that sometimes we recall them
in these dream experiences.
>>NOORY: Is there some
entity, some thing
that feeds us these dreams?
>>FEY: Possibly.
I think really it's the
collective consciousness.
I think that there is this web
woven within and around all
of us that connects us all.
If you look at the Princeton
EGG random computer
generating experiments
that have been done.
Doesn't that tend--
>>NOORY: Roger Nelson.
>>FEY: Yeah, doesn't that tend
to prove this idea that we're
all in this together?
>>NOORY: See, I call it
the wireless internet.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: We're all hooked up.
I'm hooked up to you.
You're hooked up to me.
Tom, our producer, is
hooked up to somebody else.
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: That's how it works.
Yeah, and that's why like if
you're thinking about Tom,
like, Oh, I've got to--
I got to tell him that we got
to get this person on the show,
he'll call you
within five minutes.
And you're like, Oh, I was
just about to call you.
That's that wireless network.
>>NOORY: There have been moments
where I'll tell him something,
and he's writing it
down before I tell him.
>>FEY: Wow.
>>NOORY: I mean, how
does that stuff happen?
>>FEY: I know.
And so I think that's
how all of this happens.
And I think that's how these
precognitive and soul travel
dreams occur is that
we're all connected
and the information is all
there, past, present, future.
>>NOORY: What is
the astral school?
>>FEY: The astral school,
this happened to me
when I was early on-- so
it's shortly after 2005
when I realized all these
precognitive dreams were coming
true.
I was like, I need
to figure this out.
So I was taking a lot of
intuitive development classes
during the day.
But at night, I kept
having these dreams
where I was going to school.
And I was learning how
to be more intuitive, how
to do healing work, how to
send and transfer energy.
And it was amazing.
There were the same
people in these dreams.
We were friends.
And I thought, I don't know,
it was kind of strange,
and I didn't really
share it with anybody.
But I enjoyed them and I
learned a lot from their dreams.
And then I read
your aunt's book,
"Breakthrough to Creativity."
And she has at
least two chapters
on what she calls
the astral school.
And it was all these friends and
colleagues of hers that she--
>>NOORY: Brilliant work.
>>FEY: It was such
a brilliant book.
She interviewed all these
friends and colleagues
who talked about--
one had an MBA, and she at
night would go to school
and learn more business things.
One of her friends
was a doctor, and he
would go to this
astral school and learn
different medical techniques.
And this was written in the
late 1960s, if my memory--
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>FEY: Yes, so he
couldn't really go
around telling his
colleagues like I'm having
these astral school dreams.
And he'd get into the office,
his patients would come in,
and suddenly, he was
seeing their aura
with his physical eye.
And he was able to see
the illness in their aura.
And so your aunt wrote
beautifully about that
and how he couldn't
really talk about it,
but how it helped
him in his diagnoses.
>>NOORY: Yeah, she devoted her
entire psychiatric practice
to the paranormal,
telepathy, dreams, all that.
She was fascinated by that.
>>FEY: But she kept
it very grounded--
>>NOORY: And scientific.
>>FEY: Yeah, scientific
and very intelligent.
And so--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FEY: And that
really made me feel
more confident about sharing
some of those experiences
on my podcast and with friends.
And then I started
getting emails
from people saying that
happens to me, too.
>>NOORY: You know how she died?
>>FEY: No.
>>NOORY: She was in the tub
and a radio fell in the tub.
And she got electrocuted.
>>FEY: Oh, that's terrible.
How old was she?
>>NOORY: Oh, she must
have been in her 60s.
>>FEY: Oh, too young.
>>NOORY: But I mean
what a way to go.
How bizarre, huh?
>>FEY: Especially
with her brain,
can you imagine what else
she could have shared?
>>NOORY: Oh, my God, she would
have come up with more stuff.
>>FEY: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: And we had Uri
Geller on the radio show
some time ago.
He's a genius.
>>FEY: Oh, yeah, he is.
>>NOORY: Very powerful
and spiritual.
>>FEY: And he's a
great example of how
fear is the killer of all
this intuitive soul travel
dream stuff.
>>NOORY: Fear shuts
you down, doesn't it?
>>FEY: Remember when he showed
up on Johnny Carson and, yeah.
>>NOORY: He thought
it would destroy him.
>>FEY: It didn't, thankfully.
>>NOORY: It ended up making his
career even more of notoriety.
>>FEY: Yeah, as it should.
But I use that as an example
a lot to people who say,
I'm too afraid to learn
about intuitive things.
I'm too afraid to
embrace my dreams.
Fear is the killer
of so much good.
>>NOORY: So when people
hear this show and watch it,
and tonight they go
and have a dream--
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --can they
control that dream?
>>FEY: Yes, they
can with practice.
But I think, first
what you need to do
before you want to
control your dream
is focus on remembering
your dreams.
And so there's been
a lot of research
into how we can work
to do that better.
And one of the things is
looking at the two hours
before you go to sleep.
So many of us are on our phones,
or we're falling asleep to TV,
or we've got blue light from
a Wi-Fi router in our room.
All of that stuff is
going to really affect--
>>NOORY: We're being
bombarded by that.
>>FEY: We are.
And we--
>>NOORY: Charging your phone.
>>FEY: Yes.
Is it charged, are my AirPods,
is my Apple Watch charged,
all of that.
You've got to put that
all away, if you really
want to recall your dreams
because the blue light and all
that tech coming at us
it affects your melatonin
production.
And melatonin is what
helps us recall our dreams.
So I always tell people,
look at the two hours
before you go to sleep and
try to do something calming,
some light yoga, meditation,
journaling, some prayers,
whatever suits you.
And then fall asleep with
a thought or a question
on your mind, you're much more
likely to recall your dreams.
>>NOORY: Well, one
of the things I
used to use in my
earlier days when
I wanted a specific
job was to concentrate
before I went to sleep on that
individual who did the hiring.
I would find out who it was, I'd
get a little picture of them,
and I'd just concentrate and
concentrate and concentrate
about getting that job
and sending messages
to that person's head.
And like the next
day, after I woke up,
I'd get a call from the company.
So-and-so would like you to
come in for an interview today.
How does that happen?
>>FEY: That's the wireless
network you were talking about.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>FEY: Isn't that fascinating?
>>NOORY: I put my thoughts into
that guy's head and got hired.
>>FEY: Yeah, I love that.
>>NOORY: I've done
that several times.
>>FEY: Yeah, it works.
It's actually that technique
is going viral on TikTok
right now.
And young people are
acting like it's brand new.
They call it the
whisper technique,
but it's been around forever.
Napoleon Hill wrote about how
when he was researching how men
became successful to write
his famous book "Think
and Grow Rich," he
had this routine down
when he was falling asleep.
And he created a bunch of
people he admired and respected.
He called it his dream team.
And he would visualize himself
sitting at a conference
table with them and
talking about this book
and this project and this idea.
And it was all these
people that he admired.
And one of them was
Abraham Lincoln.
And he said, it all
happened in his imagination
just as he was falling asleep.
And he'd imagine
what they'd say back.
And so he wrote the book.
It became a big hit.
He didn't do the
dream team anymore.
And he had a dream one
night where Abraham Lincoln
came to him and said, why
did you stop the dream team
meetings, we miss you.
>>NOORY: Well, I'm going
to tell you a funny story.
>>FEY: OK.
>>NOORY: It's not
dream related directly
but it's about this
wireless network we're in.
I used to produce a television
show back in Detroit
back around 1976, '77.
My anchorman was a fellow by
the name of Ken Thomas, changed
his name for TV.
He'd come in with
his little son.
Little kid, must have
been 5 or 6 years old.
The kid would run
all over the studio,
look at the camera lights,
and stuff like that.
And Ken was with us
for a couple of years.
He ended up leaving.
And he moved his family
to the West Coast.
Jump ahead, I'm being
interviewed for the job
at "Coast to Coast."
And I'm with the
president of the network.
And he's got a picture
of the anchorman
on his desk whose name--
real name was Ken Kitchen.
The guy who hired me
was Craig Kitchen.
He was the little boy.
>>FEY: The little
five-year-old boy.
Wow.
>>NOORY: You can't
make that stuff up.
>>FEY: You can't make that up.
>>NOORY: I told him
that story, and he--
it dawned on him right away who
I was after I told him that.
And I got hired on the spot.
>>FEY: Of course, wow.
>>NOORY: And we've been doing
it for 20 plus years now.
How does that happen?
>>FEY: Isn't that fascinating?
That's part of those things that
I feel are kind of predestined.
You know, like that was
a part of your soul plan.
>>NOORY: But who's doing that?
Me, him, or something else?
>>FEY: I think it's
a collaboration.
I think that there are people
that we agree to incarnate
with at a certain time.
And you can call them soulmates.
You can call them soul
friends, what have you.
But I think there's
this elaborate plan that
comes into place before
we come to Earth.
And yes, there's a lot of free
will that comes in with that.
One of the things my--
the audio was so poor when
I was recording my dad.
But one of the things he
kept saying is that they were
telling him there are two me's.
And he said, I stopped
listening to myself.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FEY: And so I
think sometimes what
happens is we have
this soul plan,
it's all elaborate and
planned out beautifully,
like effortlessly
meeting your friend's son
and getting the job.
But if we stop
listening to ourselves,
sometimes, we don't fall
into sync with that plan.
>>NOORY: I had another episode
where I was driving literally
coming up on a four lane
intersection with four lights.
They were all over the place.
And I've got a green
light, so you go.
>>FEY: Right.
>>NOORY: Something
tells me don't
go through the green light.
Don't go through
the green light.
And I've got cars behind me.
I'm going what are you nuts?
Don't go through
the green light.
So I pulled over to the right.
At the moment I would have
gone through the intersection
with my green light, a car
comes through its red light
and would have broadsided me
right on the driver's side.
>>FEY: Wow.
>>NOORY: What creates that?
>>FEY: What creates that?
>>NOORY: Because I think
it's part of dreaming.
>>FEY: Yes.
>>NOORY: Precognition.
>>NOORY: It's all together.
>>FEY: Yes, and I think it's all
part of our team, your guides,
your angels, what have you.
I think it's all--
we have all these invisible
helpers around us all the time.
When my oldest
daughter was little,
she woke up one morning,
she was three years old,
and she said, mommy, did you
know I have a guardian angel?
And I said, sure, honey, we
all have a guardian angel.
And she said, well, mine
visited me last night.
And his name is Odin.
I said, Odin, like how could
a three-year-old come--
>>NOORY: Odin.
>>FEY: I'm going through
like all the Disney movies--
>>NOORY: That's a Viking name.
>>FEY: Right, and so
I'm thinking that's odd.
So anyway flash forward to
when she's eight years old,
and in school--
my kids went to
parochial school.
So she had to write a project
on her guardian angel.
And she's reading it to me
as we're driving to school.
And she says, my guardian
angel is a beautiful woman
named Brittany.
And she's telling me about this
pretty hair that her angel.
And I said, Olivia, that's not--
that's not your angel's name.
You told me it was Odin.
And she said, Oh, I would
never have a boy as an angel.
So we're at a stoplight, and
there's this white Porsche
next to us revving its engine.
And I didn't think
anything of it
because Porsche's often
rev their engines.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>FEY: But the light turns
green and the Porsche takes off
and the license plate
said Odin number one.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FEY: And I said, Olivia, look,
that's proof that your guardian
angel is named Odin.
And she said, Oh, I don't want
a boy for a guardian angel.
>>NOORY: I had a call
on the radio show
years ago from a lady who
said her little girl would
dream about a playmate.
And the playmate and her
would talk all the time.
And I just found
it a little strange
she kept dreaming
of this little girl.
And then one day she
came in and said--
and let's call the
little girl Julie.
She said, mama, I had a
dream about Julie last night.
And she told me she
died in this house.
And she's buried here.
And the mother went, what?
Now she's getting
concerned, right?
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: She said, yes, they
buried her bones right here.
She takes her in a room and the
mother just decided at a whim
to call police and they
came and dug up the floor
and found the bones
of a little girl.
>>FEY: Oh, my gosh.
>>NOORY: How does that happen?
>>FEY: How does that happen?
Something similar
happened to us.
One of my daughters kept
dreaming about a girl
in a blue dress in our house.
And I thought, uh-oh, we
hadn't been there long.
I thought this is not good.
And so I had some friends over
who were really intuitive.
And they did sense her as well.
And so I did this prayer
and I asked her, I said,
it's not my job to tell you
where you can and can't go,
but don't come into our
house and scare my children.
So just do not
come in the house.
And two days after that, my
other daughter who had not
heard about the dream
because I didn't want
to scare my other
kids said, mom,
do you see that girl
standing in the cul-de-sac?
She's wearing a blue dress.
So she was still there,
but she was listening
and wasn't coming in the house.
>>NOORY: And you
mentioned Abraham Lincoln.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: He had a dream.
>>NOORY: He was
in the White House
and was walking
through the state room
and saw soldiers there
with their rifles standing
over a casket.
He looked in, and it
was a casket of him.
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's exactly
how they laid him out.
>>FEY: Exactly how-- and
you know that again, those
examples, because he had
several dream experiences.
And his wife had
seances in the home.
And they were very open to this.
>>NOORY: Mary was
her name, wasn't it?
>>FEY: Yes, Mary Todd.
And I always tell
people, if you want
to engage your dreams in
this soul travel kind of way,
it really does help to be
open to this during your day.
And so luckily,
he was open to it.
And that's why he had so
many dream experiences.
And supposedly, he even
appeared to Winston Churchill
when he was visiting
the White House.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>FEY: Yeah, he was--
>>NOORY: Do you find,
Samantha, that creative people,
successful people dream a lot?
>>FEY: Yes, yes,
right-brained people
tend to have better
dream recall and are
able to get a lot more
information and insight.
I have a whole
section in the book
on just famous people who
have come up with insights
from their dreams.
Paul McCartney, I
think, pretty much
everyone knows that he
dreamt the whole lyric
melody to "Yesterday."
And he thought he stole it
because it was so perfect.
And it just came
to him in a dream.
And finally, he realized,
nope, this is just mine.
So there are so many.
Billy Joel recently
said that all his music
has come to him in a dream.
Stephen King dreamt the
entire concept of "Misery"
while flying to London.
It's fascinating to look
at the creative people that
have come up with things
we consider classics today
from their dream.
>>NOORY: What about the
artist Keith Richards?
>>FEY: Oh, he was
in a hotel on tour,
and he was just strumming
on his guitar as you do.
And he liked to record himself
just to see if it sounded OK.
And he was doing that,
and he fell asleep
with the guitar in his hand.
And he woke up in
the morning, and he
saw that the tape
had gone to the end.
And he was like,
well, that's weird.
And so he played
it and somehow when
he was sleeping and dreaming,
he had played all the chords to
"Can't Get No Satisfaction."
>>NOORY: How about that?
>>FEY: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Are dreams things
that will be, or could be?
>>FEY: Well, that's a
really good question.
I think that if you have a
dream and it feels very, very
precognitive, it could
be a will be situation.
But if it's a situation that
repeats where you have it
over and over, like my dream
with the neck and the bullet--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FEY: That to me is will be.
But I'd like to believe
we all have free will.
>>NOORY: Samantha, where do
we get this incredible book,
"The Awake Dreamer?"
>>FEY: You can get it anywhere
books are sold, or online,
or on my website,
samanthafey.com.
>>NOORY: F-E-Y.
>>FEY: F-E-Y.
>>NOORY: Super.
Thanks for being on the program.
>>FEY: Thank you
so much, George.
>>NOORY: The next time you
dream, be it tonight, remember
it, write it down in a
journal, and track it,
and just see what happens.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]